                                    SUE
                                    ---


   SUE is screen editor, written specifically for the input of data.
It should be thought of more as a full screen data input program than
a complete editor. In particular, a major design decision is that there
is no command line, and no state other than input state. The rule is
that if you can see anything on the screen, you can alter it.

To run SUE, type

SUE <filename>
or
SUE <filename1> TO <filename2>

   In the first case, the <filename> is updated. The Windup command will cause
the new version to overwrite the old. In the second case, the new version of
<filename1> will be called <filename2>. If the input file cannot be found, a
new file of that name is created. The Quit command stops the update going ahead
in the first case, and deletes the new file or new output file in the second
case.

   The SUE command line may also contain the keyword LINES, which must be
followed by an integer. This indicates the number of lines which will be
kept in store, and defaults to 24.

Commands
--------

   Commands to SUE are very simple. In general, any letter typed on the
keyboard will appear on the screen at the place where the cursor is
currently positioned.

   The cursor may be moved around on the screen by means of the cursor controls
on the right hand side of the keyboard.

   The button RETURN causes a new line to be written at the current cursor
position. If the cursor is at the end of a line, then this means that a new
empty line is created below the current one. If the cursor is at the start
of a line, then the new empty line will be above the current line.
Any other position will cause the current line to be split.

   Mistakes may be corrected in two ways. The command DEL causes the character
immediately to the left of the cursor to be deleted. This is useful when
correcting something just typed. The button ESC causes the character at the
cursor to be deleted. This is useful when changing information at some point
on the screen other than just behind the cursor.

   The button HOME causes the cursor to be placed at the end of the current
line, unless it is already there, in which case it is placed at the start of
the line.

   The button TAB moves the cursor onto the start of the next word.

   All other commands are given by means of control characters, given in the
following list. The control characters generated by the buttons described
above are also given for completeness.

Command list
------------

Key Ctrl

     B    Back. Moves the display down 12 lines if possible.

     C    Concatenates the current line with the one below it.

     D    Delete line. Causes another line to be read in.

     E    Erase line. Clear line to spaces

     F    Deletes from the cursor to the end of the current line.

     G    Glue. Moves current line with cursor until further CTRL/G.

CurL
BS   H    Cursor left.

TAB  I    Move cursor to start of next word.

CurD J    Move cursor down.

CurU K    Move cursor up.

CR   M    Return. Insert newline at current cursor position.

     N    Next line. Moves the display up one line, and displays another line.

     P    Next page. Moves the display up 12 lines, and displays a further 15.

     Q    Quit. Delete output file or new file if specified, then exit from
          program.

     S    Skip to end of previous word.

     V    Verify the screen.

     W    Windup. Rewrite file over existing file, or copy to output file
          if one is given. Then exit from program.

CurR X    Move cursor right.

     Y    Moves the cursor to the end of the last line on the display.

     Z    Move display to end of file.

ESC  [    Delete character at cursor.

HOME ]    If not at end of line move cursor there else move to start of line.

DEL       Delete character to left of cursor, move cursor left.

using the following abbreviations

CurL      Cursor control Left
CurR      Cursor control Right
CurU      Cursor control Up
CurD      Cursor control Down
CR        Return
LF        Line feed
BS        Backspace



(C) Tim King 1980


c

